---
layout: posts
author: Michael Kir
title: "Apple Watch web browser"
date: 2024-09-08
tags: technology electronics communication
---
For the first time Apple Watch has a functional browser in the WatchOS 11 public beta ahead of the new Apple Watch launch on the 9th September. Before the big thing was the introduction of cookies. Now Apple Watch supports ability to have pop up WiFi links where it can log you into the network or simply let you accept the terms of service and input your email and you will be good to go.

### The Play
Since the introduction of the iPhone, Steve Jobs had established the trifecta of the iPhone. The three things that the phone needs to do well.
1. Calling and Messaging
2. Music Playback
3. Mobile Web browsing

This is a very interesting turn of events for Apple as the company has always separated iPhone and Apple Watch as two separate devices, where you would not use Apple Watch for web browsing. Now Apple is actively developing the technologies right under our noses. However the company just doesn’t see the feature as yet ready to be used as a selling point. You can access websites and the Apple Watch will log you right in through cookies. Also a lot of features that are used by modern browsers in regards to JavaScript that been quite well implemented. This includes email and password suggesting, showing that the Watch has implementations directly from the iCloud passwords that are saved on your account.

You might be saying to me “The Apple Watch has always allowed you to look up links.” True, however the Apple Watch has never allowed you to have a rich and a modern web experience before watchOS 11. This just shows the direction that Apple is taking with the watch is very international, since they wouldn’t put in energy into something they don’t believe is going to become the foundation for the next OS. Apple builds iteratively and slowly over each update until the feature is ready and fully functional. 

This is not a coincidence, since Apple is rumoured to be shuffling the lineup to have larger screen sizes. Smallest Apple Watch (currently at 41mm) is going to have the largest Apple Watch’s screen (currently at 45mm) and currently the largest standard Apple Watch being at 45mm is moving to 49mm. So the largest Apple Watch will be sharing its display panel with the Apple Watch Ultra unless the rumours are wrong and Apple Watch Ultra is going to have a completely different panel. It is very hard with leaks and rumours because they are not always reliable. We can speculate that since Apple is releasing a new S10 chip on the second generation 3nm processor we can be confident that the new Apple Watch is going to have amazing new capabilities functionally as it is going to be more powerful and efficient than ever before.